Artificial Intelligence and Machine Learning Strategy

What is AI and ML?

If you have two data scientists in a room you will have three opinions on the definitions of AI and ML. Roughly:

Machine Learning is a cluter of techniques through which a computer can learn how to complete a particular task. 

Artificial Intelligence is the high level simulation of human cognition. Typically this means chaining or combining several machine learning tasks to accomplish a sophisticated task. 

Driving a car is one example of human cognition task which can be split up into a number of cognitive tasks: recognising the environmental inputs (position in the road, road signs, potential hazzards, fuel level, GPS position, intended destination), making decisions based on those inputs (change lanes, avoid a hazzard, refuel the car), translating those decision into car movements (steering, breaking, changing gear, turn on the indicator). 

As humans we tend to take those cognitive tasks and their components for granted, which is why popular discussions around automated vehicles tend to centre around cars either being "safe" or making "moral" decisions (whether to hit the old lady or the pregnant mother). It's important to understand that there are multiple underlying cognitive tasks (each with potentially millions of component computations) which importantly contribute to those outcomes (can the car accurately distinguish between old ladies and pregnant mothers?).



An AI/ML Strategy should be about establishing a systematic process:

 to identify opportunities in the business that can be solved with AI/ML
 to identify the AI/ML tools of which the solution could be comprised
 to situate potential AI/ML tooling in the context of wider tooling and environment strategy 

An AI/ML Strategy should also:

create a coherant framework in which to place our current and potential AI/ML use cases - it is critical that we are able to identify the gaps in our existing strategy and that we are able to systematically translate learning from emerging and existing solutions to future opportunities.

be designed around business problems rather than tooling solutions - there is very little strategic progress to be made asking questions such as "Where can we use deep learning?" 

classify problems based on the functional requirements rather than the complexity of the solution
 
  
  
  


What an AI/ML Strategy should not be:
About tooling and environments
About 
About novelty
